---
layout: post
title: Official Anouncement on the Kicking of Nathan Davis
blog: active
author: Thomas
---

h3. Introduction

Some people (most notably Nathan) have voiced concerns about the recent actions taken by Scoot's Canoe (most notably the kicking of Nathan from Scoot's Canoe). The purpose of this document is to clear up the confusion surrounding the events of the evening September 30th, 2012. Personally, I feel that I have spent enough time explaining the situation, so I have decided to mostly let the chatlogs speak for themselves (though I have added some additional comments to further clarify the situation). All timestamps are Eastern Daylight Time.

<!-- more start -->

h3. Disrespect to Scoot's Canoe

<em>[9/30/2012 6:24:48 PM] Nathan Davis: Well I think it is funny to tell people in pubs we are the shitty cocks</em>

<em>[9/30/2012 6:31:55 PM] Nathan Davis: Like, Scoots Canoe pretty much never meant anything to anyone.</em>

<em>[9/30/2012 6:25:22 PM] Nathan Davis: And since the name and brand of Scoots Canoe is just a random worthless remnant for the old lanners to reminisce about and doesnt actually hold any value to us.</em>

<em>[9/30/2012 6:21:45 PM] Nathan Davis: Basically<br>
[9/30/2012 6:22:05 PM] Nathan Davis: This entire split is to spite Sam and the old lan crew</em>

In addition to this short list of rather mild disrespectful comments, please also consider the fact that the entire "Shitty Cocks" fiasco was, at least implicitly, extremely disrespectful of Scoot's Canoe.

h3. Did Nathan really leave Scoot's Canoe?

<em>[9/30/2012 6:27:31 PM] Nathan Davis: So basically Scoots Canoe is just a name to us, and a name we dont like as much as the one we came up with.<br>
[9/30/2012 6:27:49 PM] Nathan Davis: So we ditched it/</em>

<em>[9/30/2012 6:39:46 PM] Nathan Davis: You are always welcome in Shitty Cocks.<br>
[9/30/2012 6:39:59 PM] Nathan Davis: We are a very accepting organization.</em>

<em>[9/30/2012 6:53:34 PM] Nathan Davis: The Shitty Cocks are among you as we speak</em>

<em>[9/30/2012 6:25:36 PM] Nathan Davis: We decided to make a split<br>
[9/30/2012 6:26:02 PM] Nathan Davis: Thus rather than [SC] we changed our tags to [$&cent;]</em>

<em>[9/30/2012 7:19:51 PM] Nathan Davis: Aaron are you a proud member of the Shitty Cocks?<br>
[9/30/2012 7:20:12 PM] aaron ossino: [$&cent;] go hard</em>

<em>[9/30/2012 7:30:21 PM] Nathan Davis: OK so we basically left.</em>

If it's not already clear what I'm getting at here, note the verb tenses in these chat messages.

h3. My stance

<em>[9/30/2012 6:58:27 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: I do what sc decides</em>

<em>[9/30/2012 6:59:41 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: The server belongs to scoots canoe<br>
[9/30/2012 6:59:48 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: You are a shitty cock<br>
[9/30/2012 7:00:06 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: Idk what isn't clear with this picture</em>

<em>[9/30/2012 7:22:16 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: Banning shitty cocks from ts is not my job or jurisdiction until we talk about this as a group and not you talking to me about it by ourselves.</em>

<em>[9/30/2012 7:31:48 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: I plan on doing absolutely nothing at the moment</em>

Indeed, I took no action until 10:19pm when I had confirmed that the implicit Scoot's Canoe leadership was in favor of taking such action. Thus, I took no action on my own; rather, Scoot's Canoe took the action. I merely happened to be the spokesperson and the executor of the Teamspeak ban.

h3. Verdict

<em>[9/30/2012 10:19:05 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: yeah ok heres how it goes<br>
[9/30/2012 10:19:15 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: nathan is banned from skype<br>
[9/30/2012 10:19:19 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: nathan is banned from ts<br>
[9/30/2012 10:19:27 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: nathan is to be kicked from steam group<br>
[9/30/2012 10:19:33 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: further sanctions tba<br>
[9/30/2012 10:19:40 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: any questions?<br>
[9/30/2012 10:20:29 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: other shitty cocks members welcome to leave steam group if they want<br>
[9/30/2012 10:20:58 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: otherwise will probably be kicked or looked at least funny if they have the shitty cocks tag<br>
[9/30/2012 10:21:23 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: if anyone wants to discuss a name change besides nathan who has no rights we can talk about it in the skype chat<br>
[9/30/2012 10:21:49 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: the ban is a combination of two factors<br>
[9/30/2012 10:22:16 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: 1) shitty cocks schismed unilaterally from scoots canoe and therefore have no claim to any scoots canoe servers, groups, etc<br>
[9/30/2012 10:22:32 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: 2) nathan has shown extreme disrespect for scoots canoe<br>
[9/30/2012 10:23:09 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: if anyone has any comments or concerns they can post them in the skype chat unless they are nathan or they can pm me on skype or steam directly<br>
[9/30/2012 10:23:36 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: nathan can comment or appeal to me directly via pm on skype or steam<br>
[9/30/2012 10:23:48 PM] Thomas Gilgenast: good evening gentlemen</em>

This is the verdict as given by me, representing Scoot's Canoe as the senior member in the channel. It was made with the support of the majority of the implicit leadership of Scoot's Canoe. The specific and final charges against the accused are made explicit in the verdict. While no written rules for Scoot's Canoe existed at the time, the primary charge (charge 1) is clearly a logical reaction and does not need an explicit rule.

It is possible to imagine a set of rules for a gaming clan that allow extreme disrespect for the clan, but in my opinion it is reasonable to expect that, normatively speaking, a "good" set of rules should be at least partially based on respect. Furthermore, I claim that it is implicit that Scoot's Canoe is and always has striven to be a clan of "good" people who try to show respect to others, and not a clan of people who strive only to show disrespect.

h3. What is this "implicit leadership" bullshit?

<em>[9/30/2012 6:16:05 PM] Nathan Davis: The leadership and decision making for this group is centralized in a small group of long time members.</em>

Scoot's Canoe has been around for a long time now. We have generally gotten along well together and have not had a pressing need for codified rules or leadership structures besides the temporary, special purpose structures like the committee in charge of the Internationoob. However, at the end of the day, the people who created Scoot's Canoe have an undeniable and inherent right and responsibility to defend Scoot's Canoe against disrespect and dishonor. They also have an inherent claim to making executive decisions that follow from straight logic (e.g., revoking Teamspeak rights of people who have left Scoot's Canoe on bad terms).

This seems pretty straightforward to me, but some people have voiced concerns about this unspoken, common-sense-based system. Thus, Scoot's Canoe has codified the Rights, Rules, and Responsibilities of Scoot's Canoe Members. This codification is not an attempt to justify the actions of Scoot's Canoe ex post facto. The actions of Scoot's Canoe have already been sufficiently justified. Instead, this codification serves exclusively to clarify and make even more obvious certain concepts that already exist on the unspoken, common-sense level.

h3. Reacceptance into Scoot's Canoe

<em>[9/30/2012 9:29:26 PM] Nathan Davis: Fuck you thomas. I dont need you, your shitty dota play, or your shitty server.</em>

With an attitude like that, it's not likely - but we never say never. People sometimes say or do things that they later regret. As stated in the verdict, Scoot's Canoe is open to listening to Nathan's comments and concerns.

However, at the time of this writing, Nathan has only shown continued disrespect for Scoot's Canoe and its members. Furthermore, he has shown blatant disrespect for the verdict issued by Scoot's Canoe by circumventing his Teamspeak ban. Thus, at the current time, Scoot's Canoe is not prepared to readmit Nathan into the group.

<!-- more end -->